[BLANK_AUDIO]
Tapply is a very useful function and it's
used
to apply a function over subsets of a
vector.
So the idea is basically, imagine you have
a vector
usually it's going to to be numbers, so a
numeric vector.
And there are, there are pieces of this
vector that you want to calculate a
summary statistic over.
So and so you, you're going to have to
have another variable
or another object which identifies which
element of this, of your numeric
vector belongs to which group.
The idea is that for each group in the
numeric vector you're going to
calculate a summary statistic like a mean,
or a standard deviation, or whatever.
So the basic idea behind tapply is that
the first
argument is a numeric vector or a vector
of some sort.
The second argument is, is another vector
of the same length which identifies which
group
each element of the numeric vector is in.
So for example, suppose there are two
groups
suppose you have men and women, for
example, in
two groups, and maybe the first 50
observations
are men and the second 50 observations are
women.
Then you need to have a factor variable
which indicates, you
know, which, which observations are men
and which, which are women.
And so if you want to take the, the, the
mean of the numeric
factor within men or within women, then
you can use tapply to do this.
So
FUN is the function that you want to apply
and so this is going to be the same as
before.
It's going to be the, either a function or
you can pass in an ano-, an anonymous
function.
And then the dot, dot, dot contains the
other arguments that may go to this
function.
And then the simplify argument indicates
whether you want to simplify
the argu-, simplify the results, kind of
like the sapply simplification.
So, here's a very simple example.
I'm simulating
a vector of normal random variables and
uniform random variables and, and there's
ten normals, ten uniforms, then ten
normals that have a mean of one.
So you can think of this vector as having
three groups.
So then I'm going to create another factor
variable using the gl
function, and its going to be, this factor
variable going to have three levels.
And each level is going to be repeated ten
times.
So when I print out the factor variable
here, you can see that there's ten ones,
ten twos, and there's ten threes.
So each, so that the factor variable
indicates
kind of which group the, the observation
is in.
So now I can, I can, tapply on x, pass it
the factor variable f in the mean
function, that allows me to take the mean
of each group of numbers in, in x.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
If you don't simplify the result, then
what you get back is going to be a list.
So so tapply applied for the same numeric
vector and factor as on the previous
slide.
I want to calculate the mean and say
simplify equals false then I get back
a list with three elements and e in each
element is the mean of that subgroup.
I, I can pass at slightly more complicated
summary statistics.
So here, instead of calculating the mean,
which, which
returns one number I'm going to calculate
the range of observations.
So this gives me the min and the max of
the observations within that subset of the
vector x, and so here I'm getting a list
where each element is a vector of length
2.